---
layout: post
title: "POST-1"
hide_title: false
feature-img: "assets/img/sample.png"
#thumbnail: "assets/img/thumbnails/sample-th.png" 
color: rgb(80,140,22)  
position: 1 
tags: [sample, markdown, html] 
date: 2025-12-12 07:07:07
categories: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
author: Yours truly 
---
# Welcome to the endeavor 

**Hello world!!!**
This is my first Jekyll blog post.
I hope it will serve it's purpose!

One can write the content here using **Markdown** or **HTML**.
$$\alpha =\beta$$ 

### Site Pages
<ul>
{% assign pages_list = site.html_pages | sort: "title" %}
{% for page in pages_list %}
  {% if page.title %}
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url | relative_url }}">{{ page.title }}</a>
  </li>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}
</ul>

### Repositories on github
{% for repository in site.github.public_repositories %}
  * [{{ repository.name }}]({{ repository.html_url }})
{% endfor %}

### +3-III-S-CBCS(MS)-Sc(H)-Core-V-Phy-R&B
#### 2023 | Full Marks : 60

##### PART-I | Answer the following questions. | 1x8
* The Fourier series is useful to represent a _____ function. 
* If Aw) is zero, then the given function is _____.
* All eigen values of Pn(x) are _____ and lie between -1 to 1
* Qn(x) is considered as _____ series. 
* The generating function for Legendre's function is given as _____ .
* The partial differential equation $xy\frac{\partial z}{\partial x}=5\frac{\partial^2z}{\partial y^2}$ can be classified as ____.
* Write the equation of vibrating string.
* The value of $\Gamma (0)$ is _____.

##### PART-II | Answer any eight within two to three sentences. | 1.5x8
* The Beta function is also known as Euler integral of the first kind. Explain. 
* Define error function.
* Write Fourier series for sawtooth wave.
* For a function $f(x)=x^2$, $-\pi<x<\pi$, prove that the coefficients $b_n$ are zero.
* Prove that $P_{-n+1)}(x)=P_n(x)$.
* Find the polynomial of $2x^2+x+3$ in terms of Legendre's polynomials.
* Write the Laplace equation in spherical polar co-ordinate system.
* Find the solution of second order linear differential equation y"-6y'+8y=0
* Find the value of $\Gamma (5/2)$.
* Find the value of $2x^2+3x^3$ in terms of legendre polynomials.

##### PART-III | Answer any eight of the following (in maximum 75 words.) | 2x8
* Write the values of three Fourier series.
* Find the Fourier integral of $f(x) =e^{-kx}$, when x>0, k>0 for f(x) is an even function.
* What is essential singular point ?
* Prove that $H_n(-x) =(-1)^n H_n(x)$.
* Prove that $O_n(0)=0$ for 'n' even.
* Find the value of $\Gamma_{n+1}/\Gamma_n$.
* Explain probability integral of error function.
* Solve $2\frac{\partial u}{\partial x}+3\frac{\partial u}{\partial y}=0$, using separation of variable method.
* Solve the differential equation $\frac{\partial^2y}{\partial x^2}+4y=\cos 2x$.
* Write 3D Laplace's equation in cylinderical and spherical polar coordinates.

##### PART-IV | Answer within 500 words each | 6x4
4) Derive an expression for complex form of Fourier series. Also write some uses of Fourier series.

###### OR
Derive cosine and sine series of Fourier expansion for even and odd function.

5) Derive an expression for Legendre differential equation using Frobenius method.

###### OR
Using the generating function of Hermite polynomials evaluate the value of $H_2(x)$ and $H_3(x)$.

6) Evaluate $\int_0^\infty \frac{x^{2m}}{1-x^{2n}}dx$, where 'm' and 'n' are positive integers and nm.

###### OR
Derive an expression for Associated legendre differential equation and find its solution.

7) Establish the one dimensional wave equation of a transverse vibrations of a stretched string.

###### OR
Write down the Laplace's equation in spherical polar coordinates and find its solution. Also obtain an expression for spherical Harmonics.

